*** Warren Robinett on Game Theory ***
There is a natural progression in the emergence of a new art form. Often there is an enabling technology that must first be invented and made to work. In the case of cinema, for example, this was the motion-picture camera, projector, and film. Then come the first works exploring the new medium. The pioneers are often clueless, from the point of view of later practitioners, about what you can do with the medium, and a great deal of experimentation occurs, with a few successes, and with some bizarre and interesting relics that soon disappear. If the public likes what they see, they continue to buy, and the medium has a chance to develop. The ideas that work give rise to genres, and all too quickly, the youthful efflorescence is over (Alas, that Spring should vanish with the Rose/ That Youth's Sweet-Scented Manuscript should close.) and the genres harden. Critics arise when there are enough works that the public needs help sorting out the good from the bad. And trying to analyze what separates the good from the bad naturally leads to a theory, or theories, about the medium. Throughout the progression outlined here, in a healthy and developing medium, there is a continuous competition among the practitioners making new works. The critics and theorists cannot get started without a body of works to winnow and analyze, and their work is meaningless without a stream of new works being created, presumably being informed (somewhat) by their efforts. The wolf keeps the caribou strong. The players, the designers, the critics, and the theorists are natural members of a healthy ecosystem.
This homespun theory of art-form emergence is based on what I have observed in the field of video games. (For a homespun art theory, there are no doubt theorists waiting, vulture-like, to claw out its eyes and pick its bones. But hey, vultures, I was there and you weren’t.) The enabling technology (computers and computer graphics) became cheap enough to reach consumers in the 1970s. A great many video games were created in the first ten years, and genres came to be recognized (shooters, racing games, sports sims, side-scrollers, etc.). Critics were born when the game magazines began rating various games (C+, A-, etc.). As far as I know, this book is the first to focus exclusively on the theory of video games. There is a set of questions that fall to the theorists to address, but before trotting out the Big Questions, let’s return briefly to the early days of the medium.

This is a book about video-game theory, and I think a reasonable person might well wonder why a theory is needed for video games. I’ll give my answer here. In the video-game ecosystem I described earlier, the ecological niches were player, designer, critic, and theorist. The roles of designers and players seem obvious -- designers design games and players play them -- but what are the jobs of the critics and theorists? I believe that the critic’s job is to ask “Which are the good games?” and the theorist’s job is to ask “Why?” From those basic questions, many new ones spring up:
What makes a good game? What are the desirable qualities? Fun? Realistic? Playable? Winnable? Responsive?
What are the elements of video games? By “elements” I mean such things as the game world, objects, autonomous creatures (“AI”s), other human players, goals, obstacles, weapons, tools, user-interfaces, controllers, and sounds. For comparison, some elements from which novels are built are: plot, character, description, and dialogue; and for poems: alliteration, meter, and rhyme. Some elements from which music is built are melody, harmony, rhythm, repetition, tempo, dynamics, and phrasing. Can we identify the essential and fundamental elements of video games?
What are the genres of video games? People seem to naturally want to group works into classes according to their similarities. What are those classes? These would be analogous to the genres we
find in music (classical, rock, jazz, country) and among novels (detective novels, romance novels, historical novels).
http://www.warrenrobinett.com/papers/Video_Game_Theory_Reader_Foreword_by_Warren_Robinett.pdf


*** What do little boys like ***
And little boys haven’t changed. (Not even the ones who are now 30 or 40.) They still like to blow up bad guys, fight scary monsters, and drive noisy, powerful vehicles.
