# Myths #
1. VR Sickness is something you either have or don't.  
	- Many people have it to some degree (some dont even notice, like I used to get an apparently random headache and later realized that it was probably some level of VR motion sickness) but 
	- Solving it: for most of those people playing something that makes them sick for 1-5 minutes per day every day will feel much less motion sick in a week or two.  In my wifes case this worked in about 1 week where at first she couldn't even watch me play Snake Pass on a monitor from 6ft away but a week later she was sliding around quickly for literally hours on end in VR.  this would likely work for people who get motion sickness on boats but in that case once you're experiencing the motionsickness on a boat its too late to get off any time soona nd you are subject to that same motion for the next 20min while you get back to land. In VR you can just pull the helmet off, which brings me to my next point, 
	- How not to solve it: Playing through your sickness isn't a good way to solve motion sickness.  During this training phase don't overdo it, pull off the helmet at the first sign of any discomfort or sickness or headache or after 5 minutes is up for the first few days.  After the first few days experiment with more than 5 min.  If you stop playing VR and then come back to it a month later you may have to break yourself back in over the course of a few days to get used to it again.
	2. Gatekeeping VR is small minded.  Motion Controls and roomscale are required to experience 'true VR' and if you arent doing 'true VR' then VR is a waste of money.  "VR isn't primarily about the motion controls, it's about feeling like you exist in a fictional game world." - Stereo3DProductions https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1pf7T9txKsM
	Virtual Reality devices aren't perfect Ready Player One level immersion yet and it will be a long time before we see anything like that mainstream.  Virtual Reality devices today are amazing tools that give you options for an enormous variety of immersive and entertaining and thrilling and chill experiences.  If you gatekeep yourself by deciding in advance what is and isn't true VR before you try things then you are hampering your experiences.  If what you want is motion controls, thats great, and I love them, but I dont always love them, sometimes I love the relaxing compact and unobtrusive nature of using a keyboard and mouse or gamepad control scheme and there are tons of VR experiences for which this is a great option if not the best option.  Gatekeeping someone elses experiences by saying its not true VR if it doesn't have motion controls gets under my skin because is limiting the breadth interested members in our community and attempting to limit the enjoyment and degree to which those in the community can leverage their devices to have peak experiences.  Besides gatekeeping VR based on motion controls isnt accurate since even with motion controls what we have today is not true VR (think the Matrix).  Motion controls are more VR than a gamepad, but they are not always more immersive and they are not always the most applicable or best control scheme.  Its only immersive if it doesn't get in your way so for someone used to a gamepad or keyboard and mouse who wants to have that experience but feel like they are in a 3d world then even a little bit of 6dof head tracking is instantly and deeply immersive, and if the control scheme is second nature then theres nothing to take you out of that immersive world.  If you're not used to using keyboard and mouse or gamepad then motion controls are a great place to start since you already know how to move your arms around so many in game motions are instantly second nature.  You can't replace motion controls with a gamepad, nor can you entirely replace the benefits of a gamepad (small size, long play comfort, ease, posture posture required, precision for some games), or a keyboard and mouse (many of the same advantages as the gamepad but with even more precision and more options (keys)), with motion controls.   I love motion controls. I also love keyboard and mouse.  I also love gamepads.  They're different and they're all great.  
	3. Gatekeeping VR based on locomotion technique.  Many of the same arguments about gatekeeping from the other answer apply here, but this one is even smaller minded.  If you prefer natural locomotion thats fine.  I agree that most expereinces should have natural and teleportation options and I completely understand if you dont want to use teleportation.  Perhaps it makes it less immersive, or for whatever reason you dont like it, but its vain (and inaccurate) to imagine that what you think is right is anything more than your personal preference even if you have asked around and the people around you seem to agree.  Its not helping welcome new people into our community to have great experiences and its dulling the experiences of some people within the community by making them second guess whether their preference is really best and none of this is helpful.  
	
	
	
# History of Virtual Reality #


### NASA VR System ###

Had a stereoscopic HMD with wireframe graphics looks like about 20hz and has gloves and finger tracking with scaling graphics and moving things by grabbing them, has moving platforms, and shooting guns in 3d.
http://www.warrenrobinett.com/ecv/nasa_vr_vid1/index.html

# Games & Experiences #

* Trackmania Turbo VR (2/1/19)
	- Purchased Mar 22 2018.  I beat this in Feb 2019 started playing it soon after I got my VR in 2017 or 2018.  I had so much fun.  I got gold or Higher on every race lots of S ranks.  The VR is so damn cool.  Believe it or not playing the game in non-vr is also amazing on the huge built in theater screen even if its not in 3D.  I never spent much time non-vr.  I tried hard playing this with motion controls at first but it just didnt work, but as soon as I plugged in an xbox controller everything clicked and it worked perfectly.  Its so cool flying up in the air, and its great controls and racing is a blast.  Its also cool to see the track from different perspectives and to look around while you're going super fast.  For a more casual racer getting bronze or silver on every track would be a fair challenge. 
* The Talos Principle (10/1/19) - Wow this surprised me with greatness.  I was expecting quality since its croteam and I've had nothing but good experiences with their VR, but wow this is so immersive and fun and great.  The puzzles are going to get devious I can tell but the interface with the puzzles is just fantastic with no clumsiness or hiccups.  Theres great locomotion options for everyone and I just had a blast and am super impressed.  I beat 2 levels and died twice.  Thats a great game!
* Dont Knock Twice (10/2/19) This is really good.  It gave me some serious chills with one of the jump scares but mostly its a super creepy vibe and great scary game.  I probably played for 30 min and I have no idea if I missed things or what.  I didn't know where to go so I stopped but I suspect if I just did another once over of all of the places I could go I would figure out the next step.
* Cartoon Network Journeys VR (10/5/19) holy crap the jester thing is so cool because they did something Ive never heard before: they gave instructions and background in the form of a cute musical song when  you are about to start the level!  I love it so much!  oh and holy crap the jester game was so much fun!  It was so well scripted and entertaining and interesting.  The golden goose cannon!  hahaha!!!!  This is one of the best ever.
* Tinertia (10/9/19) I actually started playing this a long time ago (many months) but took some breaks in between but for the last few weeks I've been trying to beat just the final boss and have been trying to play a few minutes every day.  I finally beat him today and it was so satisfying!  Here's the review I wrote on Steam: Wow!  This is unexpectedly one of the best games I've ever played.  Its tough as nails but its one of the few games that really gets it right and the difficulty is completely fair.  The final level was brutal but thats how final levels are supposed to be.  To describe a typical gameplay later-level gameplay session a bit: you will start a level and 10 seconds in to the level you will die but then you will instantly restart (it doesn't belabor the process with any real delays) and you will get 15 seconds into the level and die, and so on and so forth until you beat it.  Off the top of my head each level is like 1-2min long so you're never taken back very far and there are checkpoints in the levels in fair places so you're never doing things too many times unfairly.  I am stressing fairness because so many difficult games are unfair and take you back too far when you die or make you start the game over or something absurd like that.  Well none of that happens here.  In this way it reminds me of the game VVVVVV which while in most other respects a completely different game had a similar continue structure.  Now to the gameplay: the controls are tight and interesting and fantastic.  In case you haven't heard you control movement generally (like walking and in air movement) with the left stick but the right stick shoots your rocket which is ultimately the primary method of locomotion so you'll be shooting that into walls and floors at precisely the right instant to get a big boost and go flying in the direction you intend (hopefully).  Its a great control scheme that is perfectly executed and is fun to learn and (by the end of the game) master.  The difficulty curve is great and it never gets too too hard (at least it didnt for me) and the longevity is great because after you beat the main campaign (which it looks like took me about 9hrs which is probably incredibly slow) there are a ton of procedurally generated levels and a couple other modes (speed run and boss rush) plus you can go back and try to beat each level of the campaign with less than a certain number of jumps or under a certain time par.  The graphics are amazing too with incredible detail and care taken to make the backgrounds and foregrounds look amazing and I absolutely love this 2.5d style.  I played the whole thing in VR and it was incredible and immersive to look around and see what was coming in 10-15 seconds and I think it gave me an advantage because I could see some of the obstacles in advance.  Well thats enough gushing but it was just fantastic.  P.S. If you want to play this with Windows Mixed Reality VR headsets just download 'pseudovive' which takes less than a minute to install and you'll be off and running.    Way to go Candescent games.  I just wonder why people aren't talking about this more.  
* Rez Infinite (10/9/19) I first played this about a month ago and it was great.  I actually beat the whole game and only then found out that you can fix the control scheme and man it is so much better!  If you change it from being dependent on where you look to just being aiming with the controller only its a completely different game and this should be the default option, however now that you know its real easy to change and it makes it one of the best games on the system.  If you like the idea of shooting things in a retro 3d sci-fi lawnmower man world with thumping beats then this is for you.  I love it so much with the new scheme I'll probably end up playign it again.  In fact I just played the first lievel and got 98.4% of enemies and didn't get hit once on the level boss.
* Chiaro and the Elixir of Life - This is a cool game and I think it could be really good.  I was using pseudovive on accident (I don't think thats required with this game) and perhaps as a result after the first scene I was stuck undergournd.  At least you can reset the ground level right?  Well then I just started falling for the next several minutes with the skybox and level all gettin gfurther and further above me.  I wasn't drawn in and didnt love it enough to continue right now but maybe another time.  It looked like it had tons of charm and the mechanics worked well and it looked like it could be a great experience and I've heard its got plenty of length. 
* Spiderman (11/17/19) If I'm not being picky then this was really great the swinging worked well and it gave you a fun feeling of swinging through new york and making a difference, and it had top quality voice actors which made you feel like you were in the movie and thats really what I have to say about it, but if you want to hear my picky opinion: it was a bit clumsy, particularly the part about the giant covered in road bits which it wasnt clear how to pull those off.  Thats just me being pick though and this is a really cool experience that everyone interested should play and will enjoy.
* The Gallery Starseed (11/22/19) This is really great.  I didnt solve any puzzles yet but I got to the top of the cave and played a tape in my cool 80s tape deck and played with my flashlight and broke some bottles and blinked all around rotating my playspace.  Its got some of the best controls in VR and one of the best cleverly and wonderfully narrated tutorials in VR.  This is highly recommended for anyone who wants a cool VR experience in another world and certainly for anyone who liked MYST.  I really haven't gotten into it at all and I actually suspect I'll get stumped on the puzzles pretty quickly but I'm looking forward to see how far I can get. 
* Overload (8/12/19) Started April 25, finished Aug 12.  This was a great game and the VR was fantastic.  If you like FPS controls then this is a wonderful purchase and it was worth every second I sunk into it and was so much fun.  It was addictive and rewarding.  The levels were sprawling and interesting and always surprising and it was fun to figure out how they worked and how to escape from each level.  There was always help like a hologram to show you the way to the exit and probably even show you the way to the next thing you had to do too.  There was one graphical glitch where it was washing white in one eye but not the other but I was able to clear it up by turning off some graphic or lighting setting (see judgegroovymans discussion on steam for the solution).
* Viral EX (12/18/19) I beat this earlier this year and this is one of the best games I've played in VR.  Now the reviews are a bit misleading because they imply that the bouncing balls is an enormous part of the game and its not, Its a part of the strategy for many levels sure, but really its a game of plotting out how to hit the things you need to hit.  Its got an excellent continue structure so its never annoying and it lets you try each level many times until you make the progress you want.  I got some top scores worldwide in the game on some levels!  
* Trackmania 12/18/19 - I beat this earlier this year and it is one of the best VR experiences I've had.  Obvious possible motion sickness aside (just play for one to five minutes per day and stop for the day and you'll be ok in a week or two).  I just loved looking around and seeing all of the awesome scenery go by so fast.  The graphics are great.  Complaints:  1.  Why can't we play the whole game in VR?  2. Its not clear up front that you have to play with xbox controller (touch controllers not supported but they seem to be but it will never work quite right) but once you start it works well.  3. Bugs like one of the levels starts you off way zoomed out and you have to play some of the game that way.  4. Why in the world can't we choose to play the whole game (even going through loops and everything) in first damn person?  There should be an option to turn off the pulling out to 3p mode.  Those are all minor considering the great time I had with it.  I got Gold or above on every level ... maybe I even did better than that?  I did really well.    For the record playing the whole game in the VR theater is actually still really fun and starts to feel like VR even if it isn't.  It works great.  
* Thumper - 12/18/19 This is such a cool rhythm game the only problem is its getting pretty hard and I'm only like 1/3 through.  I love looking around in VR.  Its really immersive and you can lose hours just racing and hitting buttons to the beat.
* Vertigo - 12/18/19 I beat this like a year ago and it was a really cool experience with awesome VR puzzles and some huge bosses and exciting battles and great use of VR all the way through.  Highly recommended.
* Hatchick 
	- 12/18/19 This is one of the coolest shooters in VR which has the same control scheme as the shoooter game in the Lab, but this game has a cool funky chick vibe and some amazing bullet hell patterns to avoid with great shooting and its lots of fun.  I beat the whole game but would enjoy playing it again someday.  
* Serious Sam The Second Encounter (AKA Serious Sam 2 AKA Serious Sam TSE) 
	- this is amazing.  I love it so much the graphics are a big step up from the first one and there are so many cool instances where theres a (playing on hard mode) jump scare because an enemy comes from out of nowhere.  Its so damn cool.  Plus tehres save anywhere and quick save.  There are tons of cool weapons and lots of situations which you really have to work hard to survive with so many damn enemies everywhere.  One I got stuck on was a huge field where at the end of the field it went left and then there was another field going the other way.  I thought I had to plow through the enemies to make it to the left side but really I could just take them all out on the right side where there was more room and they werent spawning.  I actually felt so stuck I took a break for a few months but when I came back to it I just decided to see if I could take them out on the rigth hand side and sure engouh I could.  It was super fun after that.  I already beat the first game and had a blast.  One of the wonderful things about these games is how perfect for VR that they are since there are tons of huge enemies whos scope makes you feel like a tiny ant.  (especially the bosses).  I'm playing with sliding locomotion and you have to train yourself a bit to feel ok with any kind of sliding locomotion, but this game sometimes expects you to move really fast on hard mode but if you are using teleport  thats fine just start on the easiest mode and work up from there . Its a blast.  One of my favorite VR games.  Its long and interesting all the way through.  I love admiring the architecture which is something you could only do a fraction of as much in the flat game.
* Nano Assault 3DS - 6/1/2020
	- Holy shit this is amazing.  Dual stick shooter levels punctuated by occasional space harrier style levels.  The 3d is amazing on both since on the dual stick ones its around the outside of a bean like in mario galaxy and in the space harrier levels its some of the coolest on rails gliding through scary alien or nano passages and fighting huge beasts all along the way.  Its so cool.  Its tough as nails though so I have to try several times to beat each level.  The continue structure is forgiving: 3 lives (or so) and then you start the level again unlimited continues on each level.  The levels are arranged like neurons so you follow one to the next to attack the virus.  Its a cool story.  Great low-ish poly but clearly rendered graphics with great textures.  Its SO Immersive!  Oh did I mention I'm playing in VR on BigScreen?  It works so perfectly.  I mapped the abxy buttons to the right stick to get stick controls but I mights witch it back since its clumsy using analog for digital and see what its like.  Anyway I found a BIG Winner!  Oh wow its pretty expensive on Amazon: $40-50! Damn!
* Starfox 64 3DS Citra - 6/1/2020  
	- I own this but never threw it in my 3DS, but its really cool! The tutorial is a bit long winded but I guess its good to know all the moves you can do.  This actually has some pretty deep space combat believe it or not.  Its fun through the tutorial but I haven't been able to play because its super slow.  Underclocking to 50%-80% crashed, 90% doesnt crash but also doesnt speed up (maybe 5%).  The 3D is really cool though.  
	- Older Citra works perfectly with this!  1499 and 1599 releases of canary work perfectly.  in Fact Canary 1688 works but 1690 doesnt (both on April 22) and then May 11-12 Nightly 1543 works but 1544 doesnt. 
	- Starfox 64 runs at 100% speed in older builds and 60% speed in newer builds.  I've tried underclocking to 80% CPU and it sped up to 70% of game speed, underclocking to 75% CPU crashed.  Immediately after booting (during intro/title screen/main menu) you can tell whether its running slow or not. I had the same problem with it running slow but I saw some youtube videos from 2017 and 2018 where people had this game running full speed so I tried multiple releases and found the following: Nightly 1543: 100% speed.  Nightly 1544: 60% speed. (that was around May 11-12)  Canary 1688: 100% speed. Canary 1690: 60% speed.  (that was around April 22)  Update: After the citra mod provided some information about it working for him I tried some other stuff and found out that it runs well even with the latest builds if I underclock a bit and turn off new 3ds mode thats what really made the big difference.
* Time Crisis PSX in EmuVR with Light Guns! 6/2/2020
	- Wow this was amazing (although my arm is now sore haha) It took a while to get setup and even after I did everything apparently right I still was confused because my hands werent turning into guns but eventually they did.  I dont know what changed but I had to have the BeetlePSXHW core selected with the light gun box checked and 260 ID which I know I had at one point before.  Then when I trigger and down on the pad then it started working.  I got to the boss battle with sherudo and I think I was one to two hits away from knocking him out of that portal he was jumping back and forth in the hallway.  Thats with 8 continues.  My palms were sweaty.  I have to say there arent many other games that make you feel like such a one man army as that one.  You feel like a total bad ass.  I love the theatrics too.  I love the gameplay too since its about memorizing certain possible patterns as well as shooting correctly.  The enemies are interesting too they will like shuffle back and forth right when you shoot at them and stuff.   
* Alien Chaos 3D - 6/2/2020 
	- this is a cool platform run n gun single screen based where you shoot aliens and clean up after yourself which is an interesting mechanic and really does add some distinction to the core gameplay.   Its pretty fun and works great in citra.  It seems though like you have to restart your computer if it crashes maybe it never closes the save file or something?
* Compound 6/2/2020
	- I played this for a few hours enough to beat it a year or two ago and it was fantastic back then.  I loved being in this low resolution low poly world and it was so interesting just looking around.  Also its scary seeing whats around each corner.  I just beat a boss ( A business man behind a shield) and got pretty darn far ... R&D 2 perhaps?   This is fantastic.  I played it and felt sick earlier then played something else and wanted to play this again :)  6/3/2020 I got to the executive suite twice and the final battle twice (maybe thrice).  This is such a fantastic game. 
* Pac-Man & Galaga Dimensions 6/7/2020
	- Runs great in Citra.  There are like 6 games in this game and Pac Man, Galaga, Pac Man Championship and Galaga Legends work really well and are super fun.  This is the best most fun version of pac man CE I've played cool replays too.  The depth of the screen is just really cool.  Its not high res but it looks good.  Galaga Legends is a really cool interesting shooter with tons of enemies on screen almost bullet hell like certainly bullet hell quantity.  there are a few other original games in here which dont really work because they expect tilt controls so I couldnt get anywhere with the Galaga 3D Impact.  This is really good and fun and it has a cheesy silly but cool 3d movie animatedly dramatizing pac mans origin story :)  This is great fun.
* Harmoknight 3DS 6/7/2020
	- Well this is cool its kind of like space channel 5 but its a platform game.  the timing seems just slightly 'off' like you have to click just slightly early but when you get used to it then it works well.  I wonder if thats an emulation thing?  Maybe I'll buy it on 3DS and find out.  In this kind of game the timing might be more noticeable than in other circumstances.  Its cutesy fun.  I admit I dont love the style or the setting or the story.  I like cute stuff but not particularly this one but I liked the gameplay quite a bit.
* Lethal VR 6/9/2020
	- Although ultimately a target practice or shooting gallery game its really really cool and has a great leaderboard system that makes you want to try each event many times over to get the best score that you think you can get.  I suspect some cheating since the best scores are 5 times larger than mine and I got pretty high.  Its really fun and I want to get the best scores I think I can on the last few events (probably tomorrow) and call it done.  Worth the money.  I got in the top 1000 on several events and was really proud to get like 100% and very fast times sometimes.  Id say on several of the events (at least one in particular) reloading planning is the biggest slowdown of all. I got 101th place on one of the events and am pretty sure I could do better!
* Windlands 7/15/2020 
	- I have had to strap paper towels to my controllers because pretty quickly when playing this game my hands (and even feet) get slimy and drenched with sweat.  Its thrilling and exciting and scary too and I do experience trepidation, but less when I'm swinging and flying than when I'm walking around on a tiny platform or up tiny cliffsides or tree branches (since thats something I'm afraid to do irl) (i'm pretty afraid of heights even though they thrill me in case that wasnt clear).  I don't think my brain is too scared but my body sure is and it shows it through the sweats.  thats a testament to the scale and excitement that come with this game.  Its so cool to swing around but the swinging doesn't come real easy its actually a super hard game that is taking me several days to get any semblance of smoothness too, the levels are designed to give lots of options so there are probably ways to really fly through them but mostly I have to take them very carefully and judge my jumps and take one jump or swing at a time whenever I can.  Today I figured out and got ok at hanging from a point and then dropping from that point and when I was pretty far down shooting back up to that point which then pulled me up and launched me quite a bit higher than I originally was.  I also took an enormous dive off of a huge peak at the highest point in an area after I had scaled to the top and it was really a cool experience to fall from that height.  I think it took like 30s to get to the bottom (tehn again time can seem to expand in exciting situations like that).   7/18/2020 At the top of world 2 on the floating pirate ship theres a shitty problem: The pyramid goal trophy thing is high at the bow and theres some clear boards to get there but their colliders arent right and you fall right off of them.  You have to know to jump entirely over them.  You cant trust what you see which in the entire rest of the game you can adn thsi is a vulnerable moment where youve climbed to the top of the mountain.
* Space Harrier 3DS 7/17/2020 using Citra Emulator in SBS mode in BigScreen.  
	- This is so amazing.  It is not virtual reality in the sense that I can look behind me and see the aliens flying off in the distance. Its also not first person virtual reality, but its an amazingly immersive and fantastic experience using 3D and VR hardware to create that experience.  Using Big Screen it feels like you are in a futuristic but comfortable fireplace heated livingroom with a huge floor to ceiling viewport.  I say viewport not screen because using SBS mode it seems like youre looking out a window into another world in this case the world of Space Harrier.  In some sense it is like you are on the deck of TNG Enterprise looking out into space, but it is in 3D so it looks like you could walk out of your livingroom and into the fantasy zone and go stand next to the Space Harrier.  Scale is incredible since the harrier is of a similar scale to a human which makes it easier to imagine yourself in that role and to see the immensity of the beasts and trees and rocks and ships as they come right up in to your face in the viewport is incredible.  Additionally since its wall/theater sized when you hit a tree or a huge robot and they are stuck right there in your face you have to look up to see the top of them and it conveys an amazing sense of scale and a sense of awe.  Depth this is adjsutable i set it to a settting of 12% since at 15% and larger, for my eyes, it started to make me focus significantly different when I was trying to keep the background in focus as well as the foreground.  None of it was broken at mroe than 15 and it probably did seem deeper, but at 12% I tried to estimate and if I think and analyze then my best guess it looks like the mountains in the back are 30ft away from the player which gives an incredible feeling of depth.  At one point I thought about it like I was playing with a whole set of flying interactive lifesized toys and I get to look into this toybox and shoot things.  Its so cool.  Another thought I had was that my movie theater (and believe me just as my real livingroom melts away when I go into the virtual movie theater, so does the virtual theater melt away when I go into the 3d virtual world of space harrier) is a tank moving quickly through the fantasy zone with a huge impenetrable glass viewport and the harrier is running and flying along just in front of the glass and doing his harri-ying(sp?) and I'm just there to watch.  I loved the whole thing.  More about this game in Games.md  Finally I find myself wanting to play as many stereoscopic 2.5d games in this setting as I can, its one of the coolest things ever.  I feel like I would rather play a game I've played before but in stereoscopic 3d or a game I didnt previously really want to play but if it were like this I would rather play it.  I feel like I want to play as many games in this situation as I can at the cost of many other situations.  Oh  yeah!  Another thing!  using the xbox controller there was actually dpad and control stick support and they complimented each other perfectly in this game: the control stick was better for moving all over the screen at a fast pace, but when I wanted to focus on one spot (bosses) or when I wanted to hit enemies that I knew were about to be in a particular place (those attack pattern enemies) then the dpad was better because it didnt recenter and would stay where you put it.  That was amazing to get the options to use it those two different ways.

* Wario World GC 7/18/2020
	- This let me pick up where I left off since I played this (super glitchy) in Dolphin VR.  Now I can play in full 3D SBS and it works fantastic and is super fun and I could enjoy playing the whole game this way.  Slight glitches: 1. it flashes just the littlest bit every minute or two and is distracting.  2. The frame rate of the game seeems low so the whole game seems a bit choppy. #Again
* Contra Rebirth Wiiware 7/18/2020
	- This is a fantastic game.  I just beat the first level and its laid out so that everything comes at you the same way every time. I love the weapons and the controls and the feel and its satisfying learning how to beat each level and get to the next checkpoint.  unfortuantely its not 3d in any sense so the dolphin doesnt do anythign with stereoscopic. I saved a save state. #Again
* Excitebike Wiiware 7/18/2020
	- this crashes with a graphics pipeline problem when you start but you can ignore it and it still seems to work.  It IS in 3d and it looks great and plays great.  Its not grabbing me though but would be fun to try to beat the courses and I'm glad it works.  The more I play it the more the scrolling stutters and gets in the way of it being too much fun, but the music is excellent and fun and the sound and gameplay are great.  
* Sin & Punishment Wii eshop 7/18/2020
	- Tihs is really cool. the stereoscopic works great and is super immersive.  I dont completley understand the controls but the graphics are excellent and the shooting works great I beat the first level (though just barely) and the story seems exciting some kind of superheroes or something. I saved a state.
* Vampire Crystals Wii Eshop 7/18/2020 
	- The game seems to work and the 3d looks great I dont understand though how to control it, I had to plug in virtual nunchuck and I did and then it let me sort of start the game but I dont even know how to select menus wihtout an actual wiimote.  I set it to use the left stick and it seems to be pointing ok (if not accurately).  Update: I got it working really great by emulating the classic controller!  boy this looks to be an excellent dual stick shooter!  Its cute and plays great!  I used a 16bit filter and it looks awesome!  The times on each level are a bit tight.  it seemst o have unlimited continues but I imagined the arbitrary time limits are going to be a problem.  I like the weapons.  I accidentally lost all of my progress by not continuing :( no its good actually it let me continue when I reloaded.  This is a good forgiving game.  there are plenty of time powerups if you go looking for them.  Also this game looks like it might be kind of short which is nice - nope its probably got more worlds than I thought.  I dont know how to pause.  im on level 1-5 and Ive died like 6 times because of time or life.  I'm probably up to 10 times.  Its still fun but I think the curve is too steep.  Probably 12th time I beat it.  Beat the boss the first time!  Its a really good game really.  Lets see looks like world 2 is different scenery and its really nice and beautiful.  Apparenlty therea re two players in this game.  Some of the weapons in these levels are awesome!  Huge missiles and 5 way that follows the ground.  Lots of variety here. and lots of enemy variety too.  With the supersampling the game looks really really good. I think I got tolevel 2-3.  Died a bunch 
* Gradius Rebirth Wiiware 7/19/2020 
	- Awesome stereoscopic 3D  and a really cool game with a great continue structure.  I beat the first level in about 10min and love the graphics and am enjoying myself.  	I got really far past a crab eye ball boss and it took me like 30 min and it was super hard, including the build up to the boss which was hard too and you have to be very sneaky to get all the powerups you need. I used a laser.  I spent like 4 hours on thsi game so much fun got through 3 levels.  the continue structure is fantastic. perfct.  I think I ended up at 4-3  #Again
* Castlevania The Adventure Rebirth Wiiware 7/18/2020 
	- This is really cool.  It took me one failure to beat the first level and boss.  This is a really good game.  I feel like I could eventually actually beat this.  It feels do-able.  It saved my progress in a save file in game.  Unfortunately this is NOT 3D which is slightly disappointing to me.
* Wario Land Virtual Boy - 7/18/2020 
	- DL retroarch and load the Beetle core and the game and when the game is playing open the menu (F1) go to options and 3d mode and set it to SBS.  Now it works and its in 3D SBS!  F key to go exclusive full screen.  Note:  things in the distance are doubled so I need to change some settings somehow but dont know how.  In the retroarch folder theres shaders/glsl/stereoscopic-3d/side-by-side.glslp where you can set some parameters but I dont know if it reads them or not.  I just changed the eye distance to something wildly different and it didnt change in the emulator.  In fact I'm not sure its using these shaders for these games, maybe these are for like n64 or PSX games or something.  Maybe theres a more specific beetle setting?  Ok in Retroarch/Config/Beetle VB/ theres Beetle VB.opt and in the [documentation here](https://mednafen.github.io/documentation/vb.html) theres similar corresponding options to what are in this file (underscores replacing dots) so I'm going to try changing vb.sidebyside.separation to 10 and restart the core and see what changes.  I dont think it read in my setting because it looks exactly the same.  Update: When in Big Screen I move further back (like in the theater to the back of the theater) then while it doesnt look as cool imho, the things in the back of the 3d arent doubled up and look clearer.  Even then I have to refocus when looking in the front and back but at least its possible for me to do so.  Things I can try: Getting a retroarch Virtual Boy build from someone who has it working, or getting the underlying retroarch emulator working wihtout retroarch so I can set the settings manually (trying this now). Its pretty easy.  run it once Mednafen.exe and it makes a default config file with all options in it set.  In there change anaglyph to sbs and then I can change the sidebyside separation.  I put in 500 and it made the distance between the two entire views of the game real wide, I guess thats all it does.  I dont know if that is about to help with depth or not but I'll try 0, 10, 50, 100, 200 1000 see what happens.  Ok so theres a bit of a problem because it doesnt have any input devices setup apparently.  Ok so I've gotten used to the idea that I need to sit a little bit back from the screen.  I think they should offer a depth option in their emulator but they don't so thats ok.  I played the first level of wario and it was super fun!
* Metroid Prime 7/19/2020 DolphinVR
	- Wow this is really cool.  The VR seems to work great with gamepad and the graphics (when upscaled) are really fantastic looking and performance is great.  Graphics have some glitches?  yes definitely.  Nothing problematic though and its amazing being immersed in that world with head and view tracking.  "Prime 1/2 both work amazingly well, so well in fact I would dare call them essential VR experiences."  So now people are saying that you can decouple the gun from the head, and use the vive wands to play the game.  When they say that in this game I was pretty stunned since I thought they meant that you could aim with the vive wands, but I didnt think that was possible at first and I still dont despite people saying that you can.  When I re-read things I dont think anyone is saying that you can actually aim with the vive wands, just that the gun while generally stationary isn't totally stuck to the side of your head as you turn your head (which is pretty unrealistic.  It should be aiming forward at all times regardless of your heads direction.  If I use the keyhole setting then I can change the yaw with the stick and it doesnt turn my head. Maybe that helps some people with motion sickness?  it would probablyalso make it harder to dodge enemy projectiles.  
	- https://www.reddit.com/r/Vive/comments/9ksdpm/how_can_i_play_metroid_prime_trilogy_in_vr/
	- https://www.reddit.com/r/Vive/comments/4prtxv/dolphin_vr_50/
	- [Vive controllers work like a charm](https://www.reddit.com/r/Vive/comments/4prtxv/dolphin_vr_50/) I dont think they mean that it aims ... 
	- So 7/20/2020 well so today I figured out by playing in non vr that you have to hold the right trigger and move the left stick to aim the scanner and in non vr its clear where the scanner is aiming but in VR that overlay is gone so thats what makes it hard to aim the scanner.  The guy in [the video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X1oKpb4mv5g) probably the first one in that series anyway says that is one of the wieirdes parts.  Another thing I figured out today is I was using the V1.2 of the iso and thats not right for the patches. It was having errors and only running if I didnt patch the culling.  With the regular rom it ran the culling patches and everything worked better overall!  I got past the first boss and it was super fun and got down to the planet :)
* Sin & Punishment Star Successor 7/20/2020 Wii Dolphin VR.  
	- Whats cool is as soon as I selected the wiimote and nunchuk first option preset the pointer showed up immediately.  No tweaking needed!  I was able to select something on a menu and I'm blown away and really looking forward to playing these shooting games in VR and with this control scheme assuming it continues to work.
	- Now its not calibrated so well since I put it down to type, also I dont know what buttons are what. 
	- ok the first part of the intro cutscene looked great with just a little glitch, but then in game everythign was black.  I was able to shoot and move and those seemed to work.
	- Important note: this isn't accurate the same way VR aiming is accurate even though I thought it would be.  Its not. Its shaky andjumpy just like the wii pointer was back in the day and its not instantaneous, the pointer follows you around with a tiny delay.  
	- Ultimately it doesnt work. The gameplay is all blacked out unfortunately.
	- Update: 7/22/2020 back to Dolphin: oh wow this is a bad ass game when the control scheme is right.  I got it working with wiimote/nunchuck both mapped to xbox controller and wow it works fantastic!  I think I could enjoy playing this all the way through with this control scheme becuase it works so damn well.  	Its so much fun like space harrier and the grpahics and UI all works so damn solid.  I think I like this better than aiming with the wiimote.  It always jumps back to center which makes it easy to aim.  I love it so much.  Beat the first level pretty easily this way and had lots of fun doing it.
	- How does it work with mouse and keyboard?  Ok well after some config it actually works perfectly too, however its not as intuitive for me personally so I will probably use the controller instead.  It might work better in full screen now that I think about it. Lets try that.
	- How does it work with the motechuck controlscheme in sbs?  In a word: Perfect.
	- I mean ... now that I'm playing like this, this is one of the coolest games thats ever been made. Its like modern space harrier for gods sakes but with generally fair difficulty.  Only on one of the bosses did it seem like I would have been forced to take some damage, but frankly I bet theres a way around that. 
	
* Burnout 2 7/20/2020 Wii Dolphin VR
	- This works well enough to be absolutely super fun.  I have great memories of this game and its still fun.  I love this. 
	- There are some graphical glitches the most jarring being a strange UI element that pops up during menus with lots of reflections and mirroring in it, but also it pops up during boosting which is pretty disruptive.  I'll check and see if anyone has any codes for it.  its got a code built in but it doesnt have a fix for the menu.
	- I wonder if this would work even better in 3D SBS?  I dont know but I kind of doubt it because its so damn cool being able to look around like this.  
	- the replays are cool to watch too.  The graphics are definitely quite dated though.  For whatever reason I dont feel motion sickness in this game.  Maybe 3rd person perspective, maybe because people are used to driving in cars?
	- #Again
* Alien Hominid 7/20/2020 
	- This is really cool.  In VR you can see things you couldnt otherwise.  There is depth to each building in the parallax background, not much, but just enough that it looks like its all cut out of construction paper and separated by a little foam pad like 1cm or so apart.  Also off to the right and left is the edges of the textures that are scrolling past and youc an see their ends which is interesting and makes it seem like its the end of the world always just a bit ahead ofyou.  
	- It plays great with standard controller and the playscreen is really huge like a theater, which means its hard to keep situational awareness of where your enemies just spawned in from so its not a good way to play this game but its pretty cool for a while though!
	- I nearly beat the Cyclops boss level 2 maybe got 27k used like 3 continues and it was really fun!  
	- otoh probably wont play it again 
* The Return of the King 7/20/2020
	- The presentation is amazing. I'm watching some clear movie footage on a large theater screen.  Looks and sound amazing and really draws me in.  
	- #Again omg this is so much fun and so cool and bad ass.  I really feel like I'm in the movie and saving middle earth!
	- Its clumsy in a lot of ways but epic and awesome in others.  Where you might imagine theres a huge battle going on if you were only looking in one direction, there may not be culling behind you but theres also not a huge array of troops fighting.
	- I've got the two towers but it doesnt have any codes.  It might work anyway who knows.
	- The GUI between levels is on the floor beneath your feet haha
	Even if its below me and therefore hard to look at, it looks great adn I actually love the style.  Stone background with gandalf, and a foot in front of that is four helmets wtih my ratings in all of their levels.  Its great.  Lots of little situations where the gui is like behind me or the background is behind me where it should be in front.  None of it matters totally playable.    The level select menu is actually really awesome.  its ina  big cylinder tower building and its runes up a wall its really cool in vr.
	- And I think thers lots of room for replay since theres many paths you can take.  This is really great.  This osgiliath miission is so bad ass.  there is fighting everywhere amazing ruined buildings and a dragon flying overhead.  ITs so bad ass.  oh nad huge cannonballs flying at you in VRTheres lots of opportunities to see through walls to the edges of hte city in VR but also to see the action from perspectives you wouldnt otherwise.  Its so cool.  Lots of blinky locks tho which momentarily mess with your eyes.
	- I love the mechanic about sneaking around in osgiliath avoiding the eye of hte enemy and then fightingmy way through to antoher safe zone. 
	- There are checkpoints during the levels and its a pretty hard game with medium-interesting combat, but I've had to play teh same part of osgiliath many times and in the past that would have been so frustrating that I would have not enjoyed it so much, but now especially since volgarr the viking I understand and appreciate this continue structure better and appreciate how much more interesting the levels end up being when I know them so well
	- This is one of my favorites ever and I have some regrets that I never played this back in the day.  If I didnt own it I rented it and never really sank the time into it.  Same with Two Towers honestly but that one I did sink time into and got halfway through it.  It was hard and I wasnt so good at trying games many times. I guess I felt like it was a waste of my time and I had other important (restlessness) things to do.  But if I had really immersed myself into those games like I am doing now boy I think I would have loved them back then and fallen in love with them as some of my favorite games ever despite their faults.  Two Towers doesn't let you go back and try a level again once youve beaten it, I heard arumor this one does, and this one has co op so this is a better game in those regards.  I remember getting half way through two towers and it was painful because I was dying so often and I didnt do that well and wanted to try it again because there was a branching path or a choice or I needed a certain score to get an item or something, and there was a huge problem in my mind because I felt I would have to play the whole game over again to get a better score.  This was like 2006.
* Excite Truck 7/20/2020
	- this is great!  A little slowdown and a little hud darkness sometimes but the racing is great.  Theres no cull codes but theres still lots to tlook at the culling isnt bad and its super fun! The controls were tricky to setup probably because things were double mapped to tilt but the tilt works well now and its super fun to play!  
	- THe replays are amazing because you can pause them and look from different camera angles mid-replay!  I got 1st place on my first race!
	- its really cool although after a few minutes of thinking about it, its just clumsy enough that I dont feel drawn to play it quite a bit again
* Geometry Wars 7/20/2020
	- Works great and its lots of fun!  The backgrounds are 3d compared to the playfield although theres not vast depth in the playfield (as is the nature of this game) but there is depth especially when the waviness happens and its really cool to see that!  it plays excellent with classic controller.  Note: right now the stroke on all of the lines is thick which makes it look ... weird.  everything still works, but its all kidn of blurry as a result.  Let me try adjusting some graphics options.  Most of the game even the text is made of little vectors so if somehwo the stroke is changed it will look crisp again.  I was kind of hoping it would be super high resolution but who knows if that will work.  At native resolution it looks bad.  Enable wireframe looks pretty interesting actually.  I wasnt able to change the stroke size in VR.  its not amazing in VR for any particular reason, although in the menu it is pretty cool to look around and see the starfield.  I wonder what its like in non-vr dolphin?  or in 3d?
	- Wierd ... in non-vr dolphin I dont think the stroke is too big, but whats weird is I can't tell for sure.  if I get motivated I'll take screenshots of both.  Otoh I'm not that motivated.  I beat the hell out of this game back in the day and I'm not motivated to do it again.
* Klonoa 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- Somehow without any hacks I got to spend maybe 30 seconds jumping around in the awesome 3d world and it was like I was playing with toys and it was so damn cool!  There was a lot of culling so adding the culling seemed to cause problems.  Regardless after that 30s I picked up a powerup or something and the hud had to reassert itself and block the main game view and the game became unplayable unfortunately.  Basically you can only walk a few feet to the right and then the mirror-hud blocks the game view.  Wait theres an option for HUD on top in VR settings ... maybe that will fix it?  Update: with some tweaking I got it mostly playable: I put hud 3d closer to 0 and the two hud checkboxes off and hud distance to 10 metres.  Now theres still a hud but its back a ways and therefore not getting in between the player and the camera.  Theres still another smaller hud in the top left of the camera fustrum that is annoying but its not directly in the way of the player
	- Update!  Set hud thickness to 10000 removes all of the HUD problems!!! I'm going to make that default and see if that fixes it with BUrnout 2.  In the process of doing this I also turned off reprojection for Dolphin in SteamVR application specific settings.  Now it looks awesome and seems totally playable!
	- Now it works to near perfection and its so damn cool to look around and see the whole level laid out to the sides and around you.  this is awesome #Again
	- The windmill coming at you in the first level after the tower is really a sight.  The water reflections are a bit weird since they are based on what hte camera is seeing so when I move my head the reflections change.  Thats slightly glitchy but fine.  The game is very playable and fun.  It even gives me a fear of heights when I got up to the top of the first peak!  WOW Theres an awesome VR ROller coaster on level 2!  The cutscenes are great because you can look all around while they're talking and see everything thats going on.  Playing like this gives you near instant situational awareness about the 3 dimensions of the level layout where in a screen you have to construct it in your head, here you look around and immediately know roughly what is there and where you could go. It makes it easier to imagine being there and makes the game levels instantly partially familiar.  Its not easy to navigate and many of the enemies aren't spawned yet and you still have to solve all of the puzzles.  Its just so superior tohaving a screen.  Screens are still awesome too though for different reasons.  The soundtrack here is awesome. The boss battle music is really cool.

* Epic Mickey 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- VR didnt work.  This really doesnt work its an unplayable mess in VR but wow the intro videos are amazing, they are dark and legitimately scary in a typically happy go lucky setting and it looks to me like it will be a really cool game when I get it working well.  
	- Now I'm trying it in Dolphin and as long as I start it without Anisotropic filtering on the cinematics work just fine.  Wait ... right as I'm typing this they slowed to a crawl.  30fps down to 10fps.  Lets just wait a few minutes and see if after the cinematic is over we can start playing at full speed? Something I'm setting is keeping it slow.  Its choppy even in gameplay.
	- Regarding the setting its pretty dark and bad ass.  I have a hard time relating to Mickey in this setting but I suspect it would grow on me.  I loved the castle of illusion as a kid because it was actually a beatable game and I like to re-live that sometimes but not because I can totally relate to mickey especially like this.  OMG its 16h long?  No thanks honestly.  thats not for me.  Maybe if I was totally in the mood someday.
	- Well I give up on this game.  I got stuck with me being stuck and the narrator saying over and over that the paint and thinner were powerful tools and it said it so often I couldn't even get my controls working.  Mickey wouldnt move at all so something was wrong there was an empty gear and I couldn't paint or fill anything in it all just splashed.  That pissed me right off, but I wasn't in the mood after figuring out that its 16h long which is way to long for me to play something like this, although it sounds like thats a lot of great gameplay and if you like it then this is probably an excellent game for a lot of people and reports are that with some tweaking it works well in dolphin.  With the terrible framerate and problems Im not interested anymore.   
* Donkey Kong Country Returns 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- VR Didn't work. This loosk really cool and would be amazing if it had culling codes.  unfortunately it doesnt and the background is glitched AND DK himself disappears and the controls expect you to shake both wiimote and nunchuk a lot which I dont have configured and dont know which config to pick.
	- 3D SBS Works well.  I had to set motion control to move the nunchuk -50 and the wiimote to +50 when I hit the x button.  Wow actually the 3d parallax levels in this game with the awesome backgrounds is pretty stunning on this game.  Advantage of using configurable controls is I dont have to shake the wiimote and nunchuck like they want me to, I just hit a button.  its more convenient and precise.  there are tons of depth effects here too as if it was made for stereoscopic honestly.  just this first level is one of the best 3d in a 2d platformer I've played. I'm losing some frames with some of the fancier effects on.  It works so great I played through three levels.  I'm very impressed.  I love smashing the ground and I love the 3d effects.  I remember loving those even in 2d on the wii back in the day.  at this point I dont know if I want to play it again but its really good and I'm glad its there.
* New Super Mario Bros Wii 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- Well VR is kind of a mess with everything is dark but you know what I love is seeing how the game works behind the scenes, certain elements are off to the side and others below the main play area and you can see those here which I think is really bad ass.
	- Ok well now that I am running in Dolphin proper wow it seems to work flawlessly and looks so damn incredible and clear its gorgeous!   I tried the Auto-toon post processing effect and its super fun!  The graphics are awesome but in fact with this kind of stark clarity it makes clear what is tiles or sprites and what is 3d and it ends up looking a little funny, but c'est la vie with a 2008 game.  I remember loving this game and taking it to my parents and playing and beating it over Christmas break with my sister and ex and it was a blast.  I remember like the first time we got to the final castle one of my proudest moments was running the last little section when the other two died off and it was just me in a clutch moment and I jumped and bounced and slid and made it to bowser and beat him it was some kind of race or something to win the game.  I'm having trouble making the controller shake.  Ok I got it, some combination of making it a stronger shake (50) and all three axes mapped and getting the frequency right.  It might be a little bit different with every game honestly.
* Trackmania Wii 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- OMG This works so great in VR!  Its so much fun and exciting!  I use the control profile Xbox Nunchuk Remote Wiimote and the right stick to select menu items.  it works great!  Then I tried Xbox Classic Controller and it works pretty good (the menus dont always update graphically but you can just hit start and get around it usually) but boy its so much fun!  I got an author medal!!!  Wow and it looks a lot deeper than the VR mode in turbo on PC.  the graphics arent as good as turbo and there are some glitches for sure (then again there are some in turbo too!) but theres tons of awesome courses, enormous speed, and puzzle courses and just tons to do.  This game is packed and fantastic and thrilling
* Epic Mickey 2 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- VR didnt work.  Yes exactly the same as the previous Epic Mickey entry.
* Bit Trip Complete 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- This works pretty good in VR.  The menus are a little wonky but I think with the right control xbox mapping they would be pretty good.  I played some beat and its as hard as I remember and unforgiving but really cool still and I would love to be good enough at it to get pretty far. The tilt controls with xbox stick worked ok believe it or not.  There might be some mapping that could specifically set to different points on the board which would be pretty cool.  I wonder what the 3ds controls woudl be and if that game would work better in 3d than this does in VR?
	- One really cool thing is you can see clearly how they did the scene switching they just left the border down below the screen and the background is actually pretty far back behind and I love to see behind the scenes like this and all the tricks they do.R
	- Runner is totally awesome!  You can see the level as they build it just off to the right of the screen and you can see the backgrounds and some of the cool video tricks that they use!  Its great!  and it works and plays perfectly and its a lot of fun. More fun and less frustrating than I remember (well ok I'm stil on an easy level so ...)  One of the coolest things about these games is how they merge the existing music and add layers to make the game more exciting and it does a fantastic job.  Burnout 2 does that when you boost! #Again  Haha something funny happened! The boss threw four ufos into the sky and I knew they were about to come down so I watched them go up up up and then died because the game just sent them up off screen and sent other ones down from offscreen to illusion that they were the same!  I tricked myself :) Hey I beat the whole world 1!  that last boss level was tough and I got all but the final kick once and then had to do it many more times before I finally beat it.  yay.  This is great.  The soundtrack is so hoppin too.
* Driver San Francisco 7/22/2020 DolphinVR 
	- Intro almost unwatchable and UI is pretty messed up.  Yeah the game is unplayable too.
	- even 3D SBS it had a window popup with a read error and then when I ignored that it got stuck later ... I dont remember why.  I saw a little graphics and lost all motivation.  It might work but I dont care anymore.  
* Dead Space Extraction 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- Well it doesnt seem to run.  Everything is super dark the cutscenes arent there at all (and there are a lot in this game) and even the apparent gameplay is super dark.  at least the pointing worked ok.
	- Ok I'm going for it in Dolphin 3D SBS.  the opening scene has broken static on half of each side of the screen.  The 3d is actually messed up actually.  On the right eye there are two stereo images almost anaglyph but not.  Ok that was just a one time glitch I think and after changing sbs settings and back its working great.  This is an amazing immersive game which is kind of one big cutscene and its really cool.  Now controls matter a lot here and the centered cursor moving off to the side works just fine, but its not quite accurate enough for me really.  I'm going to try using it not centered then maybe the mouse to see if they are better.
	- I got through the first chapter wihth the 'relative input' on the point settings in motion simulation.  I also had to set button x to left tilt to activate secondary weapons functions and button a to shake the wiimote and the nunchuck.  My triggers are a and b on the right and z and c on the left and the right stick is the point control and the left is the nunchuck stick.  afaik all commands are mapped at least I was able to get through chapter one well.  Note: I dont know how to switch weapons, that wasn't clear from the tutorial.  The 3d is great in this game although the cursor appears stereo unless I specifically focus on it, if I lower convergence to 0 it isnt stereo anymore but then the 3d doesnt really look right.  I had skip efb enabled and hacks/texture cache set to fast (although someone else said to set it to safe) #Again
* Gunblade NY & La Machine Guns 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- This works great actually!  The shooting is great and fun. It threatened to make me motion sick since its a flying on rails shooter through the city but that also made it really cool. The 3d and vr looked and worked fantastic.  The shooting felt good and the reticle felt snappy.  For some reason it didn't always seem to shoot quite where I wanted based on where the reticle was probably that has to do with how the gun is aligned with the screen perhaps if I held it in the middle or stable it would work better, the weird thing is that didnt stop me from taking down the enemies just from aiming and hitting them blind.  It should be noted that with a game like this you can only shoot within the recognized screen bounds which in this game are pretty clear based on a border above and below.  Theres an outline option in the vr options for this: Show 2D Screen Box.  Gotta take a break for a while because of motion sickness.  Also the angle of the camera was wonky.  perhaps read camera angles in teh VR menu would help with this?  I got 1st ranking in the first mission 
	- Using Dead Space controls this is really fun actually.  Aiming with out centering seems to work real well although I can tell it might get harder later on when I'm expected to hit targets on several sides of the screen quickly.  Mouse might work better.  Its real choppy but I wonder if I can fix that.  I like how you can juggle the people to make chain combos.  OH!  Graphics/hacks/texture cache fast sped it all right up to full speed.  Theres a big DAMAGE sign in the middle of the screen.  oh no not fast.  it needs to be in the middle.  When it was fast the ui didnt work.  Yeah now its playing real smooth with only little cutscenes slowing down a hair.  Its really fun!  Cristi and me played this in Las Vegas at a freeplay arcade on a terrible monitor so it was kind of hard to see.  It was a Las Vegas Setting actually! Something I really like about this game is how when you are targeting an enemy even if the camera rotates around that enemy stays right in your sights for the most part so you can keep shooting in the same place.  After several continues I ran out of time and mission failed.  I still got #1 score!  Oh wow with the mouse I did even way better!  It wasn't necessarily the same kind of fun for some reason.  This is a fantastic game though and I could totally beat this.  The 3D should be really cool too like space harrier kind of.  #Again
* Ghost Squad 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- the HUD is right in the way so hopefully I can checkbox it away.  Meanwhile the little bit of shooting that I did was really cool actually.  Theres tons of shakiness and frame loss in the menus when you move your head.  The menus are very small and get smaller so they arent readable.  There might be a 2d setting to shcange that or something.  No the hud wont go away and its not playable with that mirrored hud in the way.  
	- Wow this is really good.  Second only to time crisis I'd say.  I wish I had bought this back in teh day for the wii and Klonoa for the Wii (maybe I did) and also sin and punishment.  I felt in this game like part of an elite squad.  it was cool how many times you would roll and look under a chair and take out dudes that way.  I played with the gamepad and there were some clumsy parts about it, it was just a little slow as you would expect but still super fun, also I think it was more fun than clunky wii remote aiming (since when I used wii remote back in the day it was not accurate and it was also slow).  reloading always took a while.  The sniping was super hard with slow reload.  The snipping of wires I pushed every button but there must have been some motion or pointing that I would have had to do.  I dont know about that part.   Its great.  #Again  I think I could beat every mission on this game.  The 3d was good and fun to play in for a while.
* Lego LotR 7/22/2020 DOlphinVR
	- The hud is in the way and its reflective.  Its in the way during the intro, but also in the first gameplay session its semitrans so technically you could play it but its also super annoying.  Perhaps that 3dmigoto might help but I'm not motivated enough to get this game working.  It was pretty cool seeing parts of it in VR.  I noticed during the intro that several characters were just tossed aside and together since it didnt matter since they were offscreen.  If you were super motivated you could play this by looking past the box borders and hud reflections.
	- Perfect emulation in SBS 3D its so coo. Its got me in this movie.  You know I'm pretty sure I played this or rented it back in the day for the wii, but I must have not been in the mood for it.  Its not compelling in its  own right like "Oh I want the gameplay of a lego combat game" although theres nothing wrong with it, its just a great way to tell a story with puzzles and combat and cutscenes and its awesome for those reasons.  The 3d is so cool a lot of it pops out of the screen like they hold the ring right up to your face and zoom in on people to inches away and sometimes look at huge 3d mountainscapes.  
	- It has lots of funny bits like when they are looking into the fireplace and sam drops a carrot down it and thats how they find him! Or how Frodo drops the one ring in his hot mug and thats what makes it glow haha.
	- Being picky about hte graphics its a rock solid 30fps but its a little doubled when turning the camera at a normal pace.   The character is not blurry or doubled at all, but the near background details are.
	- Controls seem to be wii nunchuck.  Throwing is pretty hard and tricky to get right.  It looks like its using the point relative controls.  Lets see if thats easier without point relative. 
	- For the aiming ... well ... if you first move the pointer in a circle for a second then it kind of settles into a controllable pattern.  right stick, dead zone 0, 10cm vertical, 15deg yaw pitch, no relative input.
	- Damn it crashed after a long time right after I made the mithril trowel in Bree and walked out of the blacksmiths house.  I was just thinking how I wanted to save.    It didn't lose too terribly much of my progress fortunately.
* Lord of the Rings: Aragorns Quest 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- Reflective HUD in the way. That seems to be the only problem.  The combat in this game looks awesome though.  Try it in 3d.  I like the story elements here too.
	- In 3D SBS it worked pretty good.  the upscaling didnt doo too much for some reason, and the controls were weird.  I figured out that it wanted me to swing the wiimote and mapped that to the stick and that worked ok for fighting.  There was enormous 5x slowdown during cutscenes (which were often) and it wasn't that exciting.  It wasn't shiny for me so I gave up and deleted it.

* Kirbys return to Dreamland 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- This is all kinds of messed up.  The depth is way out of alignment with the gameplay so you cant tell what ground you are walking on.  Apparently there are ways to get this working in VR in the subreddit but to me its not fresh or interesting enough atm.  Maybe in 3d.
	- Wow in 3D this has a lot in common with DKC and possibly Klonoa because its so beautiful with depth and parallax and amazing models that go in and out.  The graphics and playability are great and the emualtor seems rock solid 60fps.  There is a ton of innovation and a new interesting mechanic in each level which is one of the cool things about that kirby 3ds game too.  These seem like I would like them both about the same.  It looks so crystal clean like its a world full of plasticky or soft kids toys and construction papers and scrapbooking but all alive and crisp and perfectly lit and colorful and beautiful (and not grubby like actual kids toys - yuck)
* Excitebots 7/22/2020 DolphinVR
	- Same comments as Excite truck and it works great.  Maybe a bit choppier so I might want to mess with framerate.  works great and was fun. 


# Motion Sickness #
Cristi got through it.  The simplest way is to play something that makes you sick every day but don't expect to make progress, just subject your body to it for one to five minutes and then pull the headset off and put the game away.  In two weeks it should be a different ballgame entirely and you should be able to play a bunch. 

# Games that aren't obvious #
1. Heavy Metal FAKK2 (VorpX) - I haven't tried this but it sounds like tons of fun since I played this and had much fun with it for a while bitd.  I want to play this actually very much.
2. Doom3 (with an unofficial patch it apparently plays very well)
3. Doom 1,2 and Quake (Played through the whole first doom game and had tons of fun and have played several mods)
4. 3DS Emulator (Stereoscopic Support) DONE Citra is amazing for this
5. Dolphin Wii Emulator (Stereoscopic Support)
6. 3DSEN (VR NES Emulator with 3d applied to the sprites)
7. EMUVR (80s bedroom with a bunch of TVs, most precise way to experience 80s/90s light gun games)
8. Virtual Boy Emulation 
9. PS3 emulator RPCS3 gets playstation 3d support

List of emulators that support 3d or VR https://emulation.gametechwiki.com/index.php/Virtual_Reality

# Some trickier 3D solutions #
1. using CEMU to [emulate wiiu](https://www.reddit.com/r/oculus/comments/7rx0tm/bigscreen_vs_virtual_desktop_a_detailed_comparison/dtui2gq/) with SBS Stereoscopic
9. Trinius https://www.trinusvirtualreality.com/trinus-dream/ converts normal games to sbs 
10. This Reshade sbs shader https://reshade.me/forum/shader-presentation/2128-3d-depth-map-based-stereoscopic-shader?start=1460\ with this SBS Shader https://github.com/BlueSkyDefender/Depth3D
11. Color Code might help with making 3d http://ogon3d.com/colorcode3d.htm
12. PCSX2 apparently [has SBS](https://www.reddit.com/r/oculus/comments/8ls9ez/sooosomeone_got_real_3d_stereo_to_work_on_pcsx2/) with [details here](http://helixmod.blogspot.com/2018/01/pcsx2-dx11.html)
14. How to get VR Controllers working like a [Wiimote in DolphinVR](https://www.vrheads.com/dolphin-vr) and [how to get metroid prime working in VR](https://gamecrate.com/how-play-retro-games-vr-dolphin-vr/23568)


# Solid Non Mainstream 3D & VR #
---------
Many Gamecube Games
Many 3DS Games
Many Wii games
Many Wii ware games
Many full PC Games with VorpX
A few full PC games with mods
Many NES Games with 3DSEN
A few PC games with native SBS (quake, doom, doom3, trine)

# Flakier 3D & VR #
----------
VorpX and 
Play some Wii Games with DolphinVR
Play some Gamecube games with DolphinVR
Play some Wii Shooter games
Some PC games with VorpX in VR
Some PSX games with 3D Shader
Maybe Some N64 games with 3D shader (didnt work right away)
Maybe Some PS2 games with SBS Emulator patch


# Dolphin VR #


1. Important: After you install but before you start using add the file portable.txt to your dolphinvr folder.  Then it wont try to use a shared config with your main dolphin.
2. [Where to get it](https://dolphinvr.wordpress.com/downloads/) Yes its very old
3. Might want to use Pseudovive below
5. How to setup dolphin vr https://gamecrate.com/how-play-retro-games-vr-dolphin-vr/23568
6. Select OSVR Mode

For more info [Also this](https://www.reddit.com/r/Vive/comments/5j2zce/can_someone_compile_an_idiots_guide_to_dolphin_vr/) and [This about Rift](https://www.roadtovr.com/play-nintendo-wii-classics-oculus-rift-dolphinvr/) and [about vive](https://www.reddit.com/r/Vive/comments/4prtxv/dolphin_vr_50/) and heres a [video walkthrough](https://www.reddit.com/r/Vive/comments/4prtxv/dolphin_vr_50/) of getting it working and [some opinions on dolphin vr](https://forums.oculusvr.com/community/discussion/34903/dolphin-emulator-cv1-compatibility/p10) also [This is a detailed guide and subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/Dolphin_VR/comments/a5md0j/dolphin_vr_quick_setup_guide_and_tips/)


When selecting the cheats and culling codes if you need to add more than are already in the properties menu of a given game then go here to the [culling codes subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/DolphinVRcullin/)


Controls:
Use Xbox controller as gamecube controller or classic controller or keyboard and mouse.

Optional VR Controllers as Wiimote: How to use [Wiimote in DolphinVR](https://www.vrheads.com/dolphin-vr)
This is a good idea for some games but not all.  People are saying for mario galaxy mouse and keyboard is better.  For Metroid Prime xbox controller is better (frankly maybe mouse and keyboard is better for that too dont know) but to shoot in metroid prime with motion controls and have access to all of the functions the controller gives is tricky and people aren't much doing it.
"Prime 1/2 both work amazingly well, so well in fact I would dare call them essential VR experiences." - [from one of many interesting opinions on dolphin vr]

1. I kept getting an error: Invalid Sysconf
I had to delete it from this folder
C:\Users\user\Documents\Dolphin Emulator\Wii\shared2\sys
but when I did I realized that it might be a conf from my other version of dolphin.  



# Games that Don't work with WMR #

Games that dont work with wmr
* [NMS, LA Noir, and SmashBall Arena](https://www.reddit.com/r/WindowsMR/comments/cqkiqy/if_you_want_wmr_support_for_no_mans_sky_tell/) pseudovive fixes all three
* Tinertia works well with pseudovive in fact I beat the whole game and it performed flawlessly.

Pseudovive 
C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\SteamVR
In theer copy the pseudovive/2vive folder into drivers and remove it when youre done


# SteamVR #
Simplest Steam project:
1. Empty Unity Project
2. Import latest SteamVR
3. Drag in the CameraRig prefab from SteamVR/Prefabs 
4. Turn on SteamVR
5. Hit Run
	* It will ask you a few questions just accept the defaults
6. Then you will be in a simple VR experience of your own!


# Using software in VR #
1. OVRDrop (complex)
2. OVR Toolkit
3. Virtual Desktop
4. BigScreen
5. VR Toolbox (Add lots of screens)
6. Built in Steam or Oculus Virtual Desktop in the menu

Puzzle for developing VR: You have to switch between SteamVR and your app and it will only let you run one app at once so if youre using a SteamVR app in VR and then run your game it will close your other SteamVR app ... well thats the puzzle anyway.  has that been fixed or worked around at all?

Watching SbS Movies and video

1. DeoVR
2. Virtual Desktop
3. Big Screen
4. VorpX

Big Screen Fullscreen Problem:
Interesting: Big Screen displays Citra's Full screen perfectly but wont display Dolphins full screen at all. 

Virtual Desktop Fullscreen Problem:
Virtual Desktop has the saame problem.
Virtual desktop in FullSbS  seems to cut the width of the screen in half.  Half SBS works perfectly.  Bigscreen always stretches back to normal.


# Gun games in VR #
in the virtual living room game EMUVR some of these game would be really fun

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_gun_games